+++
date = "2015-10-03"
draft = true
weight = 201
title = "Lab 15 - All In One Lab"
+++

### Lab Objective ####
This is a project you can do after class, on your own, to hone your OpenStack skills. If you are successful, we would like to hear from you! Notice below that you will need access to a fairly powerful machine. Most people want to create their own OpenStack lab inside of a virutal machine that shows off all the subsystems. We think the AIO (All In One) from https://github.com/openstack/openstack-ansible  which is based on linux containers is a great choice for this environment. If you get this working, it will have far more utility than DevStack because the playbooks you will use are the sae ones you would edit to build a complete datacenter.  

Here is a good reference: http://docs.openstack.org/developer/openstack-ansible/developer-docs/quickstart-aio.html?highlight=aio

Create an Ubuntu Server 14.04 LTS machine using my specifications if you want to exactly match the steps below:

- Using ESXI server 5.5, 6.0 may work even better, not tested (Yeah, we need an AWS version, but this is really cheap for me since I have this already)
- 16 GB RAM  (This may not be enough)
- 200 Gig storage
- 8 CPUs
- Login: ender
- Password: endersgame
- Hostname: openstack
- openstack's IP Address: 10.20.30.40
- Using ESXI 5.5 (or 6.0)
- Virtual machine named: openstack
- Start step 1 with the ubuntu 14.04 VM installed but **turned OFF**

## BEGIN 

 
1. **VM is turned off, right?** SSH into your ESXI hypervisor

    ```
    ssh root@xxxx  # where xxx is the IP address of your ESXI server, assuming user is root
	```
 
2. Edit the "openstack" vmx file, where xxxx is the name of the volume to enable nested virtualization.

    ```
    vi /vmfs/volumes/xxxxxxx/openstack.vmx`
    ```

3. Add this line to the bottom of the vmx file

    ```
    vhv.enable = "TRUE"
    ```
	
4. Save, log out of ESXI SSH session and reboot the VM.
 
5. Turn on the openstack VM
 
6. SSH back into your new openstack VM and continue...

    ```
screen
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install git
    ```
 
7. Add static IP address, see next step for the config

    ```
    sudo vim /etc/network/interfaces
    ```
	
8. Here is a **sample** config for the above step

    ```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.xxx.xxx
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.xxx.1
dns-search alta3.com
dns-nameservers 192.168.yyy.zzz
    ```
 
9. sudo reboot
 
10. Gen keys

    ```
    ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "ender@xxxx"
	```
 
11. Containers DEMAND at least 3.13.0-34 kernel so go get it.

    ```
    sudo apt-get install linux-image-3.13.0-34-generic
    ```

12. Reboot to start the new kernal

    ```	
sudo reboot
    ```
 
13. **SNAPSHOT TIME!!** Shut the openstack VM down and take a snapshot. You will return to this step MANY times until you get this working.
 
14. Go get openstack/openstack-ansible

    ```
sudo apt-get install git
sudo git clone https://github.com/stackforge/os-ansible-deployment   /opt/os-ansible-deployment
cd /opt/os-ansible-deployment
sudo git checkout kilo
screen
    ```

15. **SNAPSHOT TIME again!!** OK to take *ANOTHER* snapshot if you trust the previous step. This will shorten your testing cycle when you return to this point for the 50th time :(.  Don't give up!
	
16. Create your all in one (AIO) system with a single line of code.

    ```
    sudo ./scripts/run-aio-build.sh`
    ```

17. Fix all problems, and please let us know what you learn. We will add your fixes to this lab.
We will post more bulletproof updates to this lab as we hone the steps. 
Return to the snaphot and try again. 
Don't give up, this journey will be tremediously educational.
